DOCSP-11685 mongo client settings page (#162)
mongodb/docs-java: source/fundamentals/connection/mongoclientsettings.txt

create the ``MongoClientSettings`` object.

Example
~~~~~~~

This example demonstrates specifying a ``ConnectionString`` in a
``MongoClientSettings``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/mcs.java
   :start-after: begin ConnectionString
   :end-before: end ConnectionString
   :language: java
   :emphasize-lines: 3
   :dedent:

.. tip::

   If you omit the ``applyConnectionString()`` method, you connect to
   your localhost.

For a list of methods available in ``MongoClientSettings``, 
see the `API Documentation <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.Builder.html>`__.

The following sections describe the commonly used ``MongoClientSettings``:

- :ref:`Cluster Settings <mcs-cluster-settings>`
- :ref:`Socket Settings <mcs-socket-settings>`
- :ref:`Connection Pool Settings <mcs-connectionpool-settings>`
- :ref:`Server Settings <mcs-server-settings>`
- :ref:`SSL Settings <mcs-ssl-settings>`

.. _mcs-cluster-settings:

Cluster Settings
----------------

Use the `applyToClusterSettings() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.Builder.html#applyToClusterSettings(com.mongodb.Block)>`__

> method to specify settings on how to connect to a MongoDB cluster. 

Reviewer: issue: These settings aren't solely responsible for modifying how a driver connects to a cluster.

Example
~~~~~~~

This example specifies the following settings for connecting to a
MongoDB cluster:

- To use the settings from your ``ConnectionString``

> - To connect to ``MULTIPLE`` servers in your cluster

Reviewer: question: Why would this be necessary? Is it required if I'm specifying a replicaset or srv uri in the connection string?

method to specify settings on how to connect to a MongoDB server.

Example
~~~~~~~

This example specifies the following settings for connecting to a
MongoDB socket:

- The connect to the socket within ``1000 MILLISECONDS``
- To read from the socket within ``10 SECONDS``

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/mcs.java
   :start-after: begin SocketSettings
   :end-before: end SocketSettings
   :language: java
   :emphasize-lines: 4-5
   :dedent:

For a list of methods you can use to specify your socket settings, see
the `API Documentation <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/connection/SocketSettings.Builder.html>`__.

.. _mcs-connectionpool-settings:

Connection Pool Settings
------------------------

Use the `applyToConnectionPoolSettings() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.Builder.html#applyToConnectionPoolSettings(com.mongodb.Block)>`__
method to specify settings related to a pool of connections to a MongoDB server.

Example
~~~~~~~

This example specifies the following settings for connecting to a
MongoDB connection pool:

- The thread to wait at most ``5 SECONDS`` for an available connection

> - To have at most one connection associated with the pool

Reviewer: issue: This wouldn't be a pool, and I am strongly opposed to including this value. A user could copy this and then would experience very poor performance (if not an outright seized application).

Better would be to discuss the _implications_ of these options. Why do we support connection pooling? What are some drawbacks with higher, and lower, values?

> - The pooled connection to live for at most ``100 MILLISECONDS``

Reviewer: issue: What would the performance implications be of creating and destroying a connection 10 times a second be?

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/mcs.java
   :start-after: begin ConnectionPoolSettings
   :end-before: end ConnectionPoolSettings
   :language: java
   :emphasize-lines: 4-6
   :dedent:

For a list of methods you can use to specify your connection pool
settings, see the `API Documentation <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/connection/ConnectionPoolSettings.Builder.html>`__.

.. _mcs-server-settings:

Server Settings
---------------

Use the `applyToServerSettings() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.Builder.html#applyToServerSettings(com.mongodb.Block)>`__
method to specify settings on how to monitor each server.

Example
~~~~~~~

This example specifies the following settings for connecting to a
MongoDB server:

> - The heartbeat frequency to be at least ``10 MILLISECONDS``

Reviewer: question: What would happen here if a primary is elected and its average ping is 12 ms?

====================
MongoClient Behavior
====================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn about the different settings to control
the behavior of your ``MongoClient``.

You can control the behavior of your ``MongoCleint`` by creating and passing in a 
`MongoClientSettings <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.html>`__
object to the `MongoClients.create() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-sync/com/mongodb/client/MongoClients.html#create(com.mongodb.MongoClientSettings)>`__
method.

To create a ``MongoClientSettings`` object, use the
``MongoClientSettings.builder()`` method and chain methods to specify
your desired settings. After chaining all the settings you want, use the
``build()`` method to create the ``MongoClientSettings`` object.

Example
~~~~~~~

This example demonstrates specifying a ``ConnectionString``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/mcs.java
   :start-after: begin ConnectionString
   :end-before: end ConnectionString
   :language: java
   :emphasize-lines: 3
   :dedent:

.. tip::

>    If you omit the ``applyConnectionString()`` method, the driver

Reviewer 2: We should specify somewhere that order matters: last one wins, i.e. that if you call applyConnectionString after the other apply method, the connection string will take precedence.  If you call it before, whatever you call after will take precedence.

server.

Example
~~~~~~~

This example specifies the following driver behavior in a MongoDB server:

- To interval between server monitoring checks to be at least ``700 MILLISECONDS`` 
- The cluster monitor to attempt reaching a server every ``15 SECONDS``

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/mcs.java
   :start-after: begin ServerSettings
   :end-before: end ServerSettings
   :language: java
   :emphasize-lines: 3-5
   :dedent:

For a list of methods you can use to specify your server settings, see
the `API Documentation <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/connection/ServerSettings.Builder.html>`__.

.. _mcs-ssl-settings:

TLS/SSL Settings
----------------

Chain the `applyToSslSettings() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.Builder.html#applyToSslSettings(com.mongodb.Block)>`__
method to modify the driver's behavior when using TLS/SSL to secure a
connection between your application and MongoDB.

Example
~~~~~~~

This example specifies the following driver behavior for connecting to
MongoDB with TLS/SSL:

- To ensure your Atlas connection string works

> - To not allow a mismatched ``hostname`` in the server and certificate

Reviewer 2: This might mislead users into thinking that the default behavior is to allow this mismatch, whereas the default is actually to now allow it.  Especially since this is a security-sensitive area, we should be very clear.  On the other hand, I don't want the example to be one that weakens security.

Perhaps use SslContext configuration as the example?

> - To not allow a mismatched ``hostname`` in the server and certificate

Reviewer 2: This might mislead users into thinking that the default behavior is to allow this mismatch, whereas the default is actually to now allow it.  Especially since this is a security-sensitive area, we should be very clear.  On the other hand, I don't want the example to be one that weakens security.

Perhaps use SSLContext configuration as the example?

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/mcs.java
   :start-after: begin SslSettings
   :end-before: end SslSettings
   :language: java
   :emphasize-lines: 3-5
   :dedent:

.. tip::

>    If you connect to localhost, you must disable TLS/SSL because there is no certificate.

Reviewer 2: This is also misleading, since the default is for TLS to be disabled.

====================
MongoClient Behavior
====================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn about the different settings to control
the behavior of your ``MongoClient``.

You can control the behavior of your ``MongoCleint`` by creating and passing in a 
`MongoClientSettings <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.html>`__
object to the `MongoClients.create() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-sync/com/mongodb/client/MongoClients.html#create(com.mongodb.MongoClientSettings)>`__
method.

To create a ``MongoClientSettings`` object, use the
``MongoClientSettings.builder()`` method and chain methods to specify
your desired settings. After chaining all the settings you want, use the
``build()`` method to create the ``MongoClientSettings`` object.

.. tip:: Builder Pattern

   The builder pattern makes the settings immutable and supports 

>    a simpler construction through chaining.

Reviewer: question: This feels out of place reading the page now. Would it be safe to remove it?

Example
~~~~~~~

> This example demonstrates specifying a ``ConnectionString`` in a
> ``MongoClientSettings``:

Reviewer: suggestion: I think this can be simplified without impacting the meaning

```suggestion
This example demonstrates specifying a ``ConnectionString``:
```

   :end-before: end ConnectionString
   :language: java
   :emphasize-lines: 3
   :dedent:

.. tip::

   If you omit the ``applyConnectionString()`` method, the driver
   attempts to connect to ``localhost``.

For a list of methods available in ``MongoClientSettings``, 
see the `API Documentation <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.Builder.html>`__.

The following sections describe commonly used settings:

- :ref:`Cluster Settings <mcs-cluster-settings>`
- :ref:`Socket Settings <mcs-socket-settings>`
- :ref:`Connection Pool Settings <mcs-connectionpool-settings>`
- :ref:`Server Settings <mcs-server-settings>`
- :ref:`SSL Settings <mcs-ssl-settings>`

.. _mcs-cluster-settings:

Cluster Settings
----------------

Chain the `applyToClusterSettings() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.Builder.html#applyToClusterSettings(com.mongodb.Block)>`__
method to modify the driver's behavior when interacting with your
MongoDB cluster.

Example
~~~~~~~

This example specifies the following driver behavior in a MongoDB cluster:

- To connect directly to a server, regardless of the type of cluster it is a part of

> - The primary node election to take at most ``35 SECONDS``

Reviewer: question: Since direct connection means "connect to this server whether it is the primary or not", does it make sense to also specify a selection timeout? I think it's safe to remove the timeout and maybe mention this is analogous to directConnection and link to that.

.. _mcs-socket-settings:

Socket Settings
---------------

Chain the `applyToSocketSettings() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.Builder.html#applyToSocketSettings(com.mongodb.Block)>`__
method to modify the driver's behavior when connecting and communicating
with your MongoDB server.

Example
~~~~~~~

This example specifies the following driver behavior in a MongoDB socket:

- To connect to an available socket within ``10 SECONDS``
- To read from an available socket within ``15 SECONDS``

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/mcs.java
   :start-after: begin SocketSettings
   :end-before: end SocketSettings
   :language: java
   :emphasize-lines: 3-5
   :dedent:

For a list of methods you can use to specify your socket settings, see
the `API Documentation <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/connection/SocketSettings.Builder.html>`__.

.. _mcs-connectionpool-settings:

Connection Pool Settings
------------------------

Chain the `applyToConnectionPoolSettings() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.Builder.html#applyToConnectionPoolSettings(com.mongodb.Block)>`__

> method to modify the driver's behavior when interacting with a pool of

Reviewer: suggestion: I think this can be simplified

```suggestion
method to modify the way the driver manages its' connection pool.
```

   :emphasize-lines: 3-5
   :dedent:

For a list of methods you can use to specify your connection pool
settings, see the `API Documentation <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/connection/ConnectionPoolSettings.Builder.html>`__.

.. _mcs-server-settings:

Server Settings
---------------

Chain the `applyToServerSettings() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.Builder.html#applyToServerSettings(com.mongodb.Block)>`__
method to modify the driver's behavior when monitoring each MongoDB
server.

Example
~~~~~~~

This example specifies the following driver behavior in a MongoDB server:

- To interval between server monitoring checks to be at least ``700 MILLISECONDS`` 
- The cluster monitor to attempt reaching a server every ``15 SECONDS``

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/mcs.java
   :start-after: begin ServerSettings
   :end-before: end ServerSettings
   :language: java
   :emphasize-lines: 3-5
   :dedent:

For a list of methods you can use to specify your server settings, see
the `API Documentation <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/connection/ServerSettings.Builder.html>`__.

.. _mcs-ssl-settings:

> SSL Settings

Reviewer: suggestion: Also state TLS

```suggestion
TLS/SSL Settings
```

------------

Chain the `applyToSslSettings() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.Builder.html#applyToSslSettings(com.mongodb.Block)>`__

> method to modify the driver's behavior when using SSL to secure a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
method to modify the driver's behavior when using TLS/SSL to secure a
```

Reviewer: throughout

------------------------

Chain the `applyToConnectionPoolSettings() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.Builder.html#applyToConnectionPoolSettings(com.mongodb.Block)>`__
method to modify the way the driver manages its' connection pool.

The following table describes all the methods you can chain to your
settings to modify the driver's behavior:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 40 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Method
     - Description

   * - ``addConnectionPoolListener​()``
     - Adds a listener for connection pool-related events.

   * - ``applyConnectionString​()``
     - Uses the settings from a ``ConnectionString`` object.

   * - ``applySettings()``
     - Uses the connection pool settings specified in a ``ConnectionPoolSettings`` object.

   * - ``maintenanceFrequency()``
     - Sets the frequency for running a maintenance job.

   * - ``maintenanceInitialDelay()``
     - Sets the time to wait before running the first maintenance job.

   * - ``maxConnectionIdleTime()``
     - Sets the amount of time a connection can be idle before it's closed.

   * - ``maxConnectionLifeTime()``
     - Sets the maximum time a pooled connection can live for.

>    * - ``maxSize()``

Reviewer 2: Let's take this opportunity to clarify a point of confusion for many users by saying something like:

The maxSize setting applies to each server in the cluster to which the driver is connected.  So if the driver is connected to three mongos servers, there can be at most maxSize connections to _each_ mongos server.

     - Sets the maximum amount of connections associated with a connection pool.

   * - ``maxWaitTime()``
     - Sets the maximum time to wait for an available connection.

>    * - ``minSize()``

Reviewer 2: Same as my comment for maxSize

     - Sets the minimum amount of connections associated with a connection pool.

Example
~~~~~~~

This example specifies the following driver behavior in a pool of
``Connection`` types:

> - The thread to wait at most ``3 MINUTES`` for an available connection

Reviewer 2: 3 minutes is an eternity.  let's change to 10 seconds

   :start-after: begin ConnectionPoolSettings
   :end-before: end ConnectionPoolSettings
   :language: java
   :emphasize-lines: 3-5
   :dedent:

.. _mcs-server-settings:

Server Settings
---------------

Chain the `applyToServerSettings() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.Builder.html#applyToServerSettings(com.mongodb.Block)>`__
method to modify the driver's behavior when monitoring each MongoDB
server.

The following table describes all the methods you can chain to your
settings to modify the driver's behavior:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 40 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Method
     - Description

   * - ``addServerListener()``
     - Adds a listener for server-related events.

   * - ``addServerMonitorListener​()``
     - Adds a listener for server monitor-related events.

   * - ``applyConnectionString​()``
     - Uses the settings from a ``ConnectionString`` object.

   * - ``applySettings()``
     - Uses the server settings specified in a ``ServerSettings`` object.

   * - ``heartbeatFrequency()``
     - Sets the interval for a cluster monitor to attempt reaching a server.

   * - ``minHeartbeatFrequency()``

>      - Sets the interval for server monitoring checks.

Reviewer 2: The description in the javadoc is more accurate, though not very informative either

Reviewer 2: Perhaps "minimum interval"?

Example
~~~~~~~

This example specifies the following driver behavior in a MongoDB server:

> - To interval between server monitoring checks to be at least ``700 MILLISECONDS`` 

Reviewer 2: "To interval" isn't right, but not sure what you meant to say

- The cluster monitor to attempt reaching a server every ``15 SECONDS``

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/mcs.java
   :start-after: begin ServerSettings
   :end-before: end ServerSettings
   :language: java
   :emphasize-lines: 3-5
   :dedent:

.. _mcs-ssl-settings:

TLS/SSL Settings
----------------

Chain the `applyToSslSettings() <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/MongoClientSettings.Builder.html#applyToSslSettings(com.mongodb.Block)>`__
method to modify the driver's behavior when using TLS/SSL to secure a
connection between your application and MongoDB.

The following table describes all the methods you can chain to your
settings to modify the driver's behavior:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 40 60
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Method
     - Description

   * - ``applyConnectionString​()``
     - Uses the settings from a ``ConnectionString`` object.

   * - ``applySettings()``
     - Uses the TLS/SSL settings specified in a ``SslSettings`` object.

   * - ``context()``

>      -  Sets the secure socket protocol implementation to use when you enable TLS/SSL.

Reviewer 2: It's not really the implementation, it's the context.  Just use what's in the Javadoc:

> Sets the SSLContext for use when TLS/SSL is enabled.

   * - ``enabled()``

>      - Whether to ensure your Atlas connection string works.

Reviewer 2: Where'd you get this from?  It should be just:

> Sets whether TLS/SSL is enabled.

and perhaps add:

> (required for all Atlas clusters)

   * - ``invalidHostNameAllowed()``
     - Whether to allow a mismatch between the server’s hostname and the hostname specified by the TLS certificate.

Example
~~~~~~~

> This example specifies the driver to ensure your Atlas connection string

Reviewer 2: "specifies the driver" seems ungrammatical.  Can you rework this sentence (and perhaps similar ones above)?

Also, I don't think we should make this Atlas-specific.  Ops Manager also enables TLS, for example, as do many customers who deploy MongoDB themselves.
